In this video,
we're gonna start talking about
the concept of lists and array lists.
But before I do that,
I just wanna go through and
show you something else relating to the
arrays that we've talked about previously.
If you recall, we've gone through
the process of creating arrays,
defining what they are, accessing elements
with in a array and so on and so forth.
But I also did was showed you how
to copy the contents of one array
to another array using
a couple of different methods.
One thing we haven't talked about yet
is resizing an array.
And that's the scenario just say that
you've actually got an array defined, and
it's got ten elements and you decide that
you wanna change it to say I have twelve
elements and you wanna preserve the data
that's actually in the existing array.
Now obviously it's very easy
to create a new array for
the existing array or
just doing the int command in this case.
So you can see on the screen
demo code that I've got and
you can just create a new array but
that wouldn't preserve the data so,
what I've done is I've just created
a simple simple program which I'm gonna
walk you through now, and this source
code is available for download as well.
And just wanna show you the concept of
actually changing an array while it's
preserving the data in the situation where
you wanna change the size of that array.
Let's going through the code, we've got
the scanner field there and that's for
accepting console input, we've got
our base data which is an array so
you can see there are ten elements and
you'll come back to the main method and
we'll just talk about the methods.
We've got a get input and its purpose
is to get the data from the console and
save it into the array.
Now note that I'm actually using basedata,
which is the variable we've
defined in the class.
So it's actually updating that directly,
and that method.
And also, there's a print array,
which you've seen before.
Its purpose is just to print
out the array contents.
There's also a resize array,
this is the interesting one,
where it actually takes
a copy of the original array,
the base data at that point and time,
which again is our array from up here.
Then creates a new array that changes the
size, in this case it's going to twelve
elements, and of course, at the top here,
originally it was ten elements.
And then, what it does,
it goes through a loop and
gets each element from the original
array that we took a copy of.
And then stores it back into the new array
or the array that we've created again,
in this case a new integer array.
So that's really how you go about resizing
an array that you save the original.
A base way of doing it
is you save the original
array first into another variable which
you can see there called original.
You then initialize the variable
with a new integer, or a new array,
I should say in this case,
of integer with 12 elements.
And then you go through a loop and
actually copy the original values,
in this case from the array,
into the new array.
So let's just run that.
So we can just get a sense
of what this is doing.
Okay, and let's pull it over a little bit,
so we can see what we're doing here.
So we know into ten integers.
Ten.
And you can see it's just repeated the ten
numbers there, 3 4 5 6 6 1 2 3 4 90.
And then if we enter 12 integers.
And we've now got the 12 array elements
stored overriding the previous values.
So the important part to note was that
these lines here to store firstly,
store the original array and
then create a new one and
then we copy the original
elements into the old one again.
And of course what I did was then I
accepted input the second time and
over wrote the values so, what I could
have done is actually changed it just to
make sure it that it was working.
Could've done this.
Not done input the second time when we
could instead have done phase data,
ten equals 67 and
base data, 11 equals 34 and
done that will save those
tertiary limits and
if you run that again you'll get a bit
of representation of what's happening.
So you can see now we've got the original
array which was ten elements, then a new
array which has now got an extra two
elements which we're actually saving here.
We're saving the value 67 into the tenth
element and another in the 11th element,
effective at the twelfth element because
of course it can't start subzero,
number 34 we're saving in there.
So that's one concept of
actually resizing an array.
So you could see that would get quite
unwieldy if you have to continually
resize that array, it would be quite
tedious to implement all the time you'd
be continually having to copy all those
elements so, it wouldn't be in the case
where you've got lots of elements,
it wouldn't be very productive to do that.
So there has to be a better way
of actually accessing arrays.
This is the point that I
was trying to bring up and
Java has got your back
when it comes to that.
And I'm gonna talk to you now about the
concept of a list and also an array list.
So it's just a general thing, a list but
intuitively we all know a list is.
In our everyday lives, we're using lists
all the time, we're going to the grocery
store, you've got a list,
a list of things you need to do,
a list of addresses,
a list of contact numbers, etcetera.
So, basically the same applies
in computer applications.
You can create lists which another way of
looking at an array effectively because
you can arguably say that an array is a
list in that, it's a sequence of numbers.
So what I wanna do is
just copy something and
paste it into a browser just to show
you some output from Oracle's website.
What we're gonna be talking about
first is the concept of a list.
Now you can see here the list in
terms of what Java was talking about,
it's an ordered collection, also known as
a sequence and the user of this interface
and a list is an interface and I know
we haven't talked about interfaces yet
but, we'll go ahead in future videos and
talk about that.
But really the concept I wanna
talk about is just what a list is.
And then we're gonna talk
about the array list,
because the array list in this
case inherits from the list.
So you don't really need to know a lot
about this other than the fact that in
Java, the list interface is pretty much
like the list we've mentioned earlier.
It's very much like arrays if you will,
in that it's an old collection and
allows you to have items in
a respective positions in
other words the sequence numbers
are very much like we've
used before in our code when we specify
the number to access a particular element.
So, the list interface extends
the collection interface in collection and
let me click in there and have a look.
You can see we've got all this concept and
you don't really need to
understand a lot of this now.
The point I'm trying to make here is that
all this code has been built into Java
to handle the facility or the way for you
to get access to this list functionality.
You see you can access a lot of
this functionality to process and
manipulate lists which we're
gonna go through the code and
shortly to do and that's built into Java.
So, for now don't worry too much about
interfaces and lists and collections.
The thing that we wanna do is we
wanna talk about array list, so
that's what we're gonna start from now.
And the array list is something
you'll actually use in your code.
This is the, as I mentioned,
array list inherits from a list or
actually inherit,
to be precise from an abstract list.
If you actually click on abstract lists,
you can see it actually
uses a list interface.
So again if this sounds like mumbo jumbo,
don't worry too much.
We're gonna get into define
it makes a lot more sense,
but the concept we're gonna be
talking about is ArrayList.
So what the ArrayList is,
it's a resizable-array.
So, in other words,
it handles the resizing automatically.
This is the cool part.
You won't have to be writing code that
you just seen me write on the screen
to do that manipulation.
It handles it all internally, not only
maintains a size of how many elements but
also the capacity,
the amount of memory that is reserved.
And as elements are added to an array
list, its capacity grows automatically.
So in other words you don't need to
worry about any of that resizing.
You don't need to really
worry about any of that code.
It all actually happens automatically and
that's a cool thing about array lists.
And what I'm gonna do now is create some
code and walk you through a demonstration,
actually for
an application that creates a for us.
So it's gonna be using the array list and
then we are going to add some methods
to be able to add items to the list,
to modify an item on the list and
to remove items from it.
Let's go back to our code.
What I'm going to do now,
I'm going to just remove this code,
just going to clean it up a little bit.
And again if you wanted to run that disk
program you could actually go ahead and
download that, but
I'm just going to clean it all up,
cuz were going to use that for
something else in a minute.
So, what i'm gonna do first is create
a new class and called it a grocery list.
So, a new class we're gonna
call it grocery list.
And what we're going to do
is we're going to create
a private variable in here for
our array list.
So, to access our array list we talked,
it's very similar in text.
We need to define the type and
then the variable name.
So I'm gonna call it, it's an array list.
You can see top array list, making
sure you get capitalization correct.
Now you notice when we do this it's
got this little E, the less than sign,
and the rather than sign there.
What that means is with an array list,
it's a little bit different in
that we're not defining the type.
If you recall with an array, when we type
an array, I'm just going back and do that.
We type something like private int,
my numbers.
And so we actually define
the top at this point here.
And so therefore,
Java actually knew that it was actually
an array in this case of integers.
But this is different to an array list,
because an ArrayLists can hold objects so,
we need to actually tell it now what type
of data is going into the ArrayList.
So the way we do that is,
we don't create a different type,
we don't call it, there's not a concept,
for example of string ArrayLists.
That's not how we do it.
What we do it, was actually define that
we say we're gonna be using an array list
then we actually put a less than sign and
we type in the type of object we
want to be saved in the array list.
In this case we're gonna use a string and
a greater than sign.
So what that tells Java is okay,
you're creating an array list and
the elements that are in the array list in
this case are going to be of type string.
So I'm just gonna accept that import.
So then we say, we'll call it grocerylist.
So to create a new one,
we just pop equals new array list, and
notice how now string is in the less than
equal then space between the list and
the equal than sign, I should say.
So, Java now knows, because you actually
specified string here, okay, you want me
to specify a string there, so I can just
click that and it'll add it automatically.
Now notice it's also
added the brackets and
the reason we're doing that is
the array list is actually a class.
And like the integer with the array,
integer was just a primitive type.
The array list is actually a class and
we'll be talking more about that
as we go through this video.
So therefore it can have
it's own constructor.
In this case what we're gonna be doing
is calling an empty constructor so,
it's just the two brackets.
So that's how we go about
defining a new array list.
So let's go ahead and
create some functions there.
We're gonna create a function to
actually add a grocery item and
our grocery items are gonna be a string
with whatever the grocery item is that
we're actually saving.
So, to add something, public void,
we'll call it add grocery item and
we pass the parameter of the item.
So we're gonna call this method with
an item that's stored in a string that we
wanna save to the array list.
So how do we go about doing it?
Note that there's no numbers here
unlike when we created an array,
we put something like it was new.
int(50), so
we defined how many elements we wanted.
Then we started addressing each
element by a particular number.
That's how we put some of
that MyNumbers(5) equals
the value 4 and that won't work there
because we're actually not in a method,
but just to go back in here,
you do something like that normally.
So that's how we go about saving
a value into a particular element
with a normal array, but
of course with an ArrayList, we ask for
the definition we didn't
actually specify a number.
We didn't say how many
elements there were.
And that's because the array
handles that for us automatically.
So what we instead need to do,
is we need to call a method that is
part of the array's class to our.
So, to do that we used
the name of the variable.
In this case, grocery list.
We add item, like so, and what that does,
it automatically adds
the item into the array list.
And the array list has got all
the functionality to actually
would determine where to save it,
the amount of space to allocate and so on.
That's abstracted away from you,
you don't need to worry about that.
That's one of the cool things
about using the array list,
by using the power of Java.
And getting it to do all the hard work and
where to say them.
I'll just get rid of the old integer
array cuz we don't need it anymore.
So that's it, so
that's how we actually add an element.
Pretty simple as you can see.
The next thing would be to print out.
To print out the elements,
we can do printGroceryList.
There has to be a way, obviously,
to go through all the items that are in
an array list to retrieve them, so
to do that, we can start off and
we can put something like you have.
Now remember with an array,
we use the .length property to
determine how many elements.
But this one, there's actually a method.
So its grocerylist.size.
Size will return how many elements I've
currently stored in the array list.
So we can put similar thing,
grocerylist.size plus items
in your grocery list.
And then when we loop through, we can
put something like int i equals zero,
i less than grocery.
Grocerylist.size, i++ and
we can do something like, what we're gonna
do is you can put i+1, so our counting on
screen starts from the number one
plus put a dot there and a space.
And have a groceryList, now here's
how to access a particular element,
we use the .get method.
So .get, and we pass i.
So that's going to output all
the elements that are currently stored in
the array list.
We know how many is in there because we've
used the size method to return the number.
Then we're just iterating through as
you've seen before in previous code.
But we're doing it by an array
list instead of using
the traditional array that
we've used previously.
So that's how to print.
And of course, the next method
we want is how to modify it.
So in other words, how to replace
an item as opposed to adding it.
Adding it will always add a new item.
So let's just say we've got a particular
item and you want to update it.
So perhaps you've got the name wrong,
you'd want to replace that item
at that position, so to speak.
So to do that, it's actually quite easy.
We can put public void_modifyGroceryItem.
In position that's going
to be the element.
The position where we wanted
to modify a new item.
So all we need to do is put grocery list I
should say .sit, position, new item.
So that effectively replaces
that item in that position,
very similar to how we
used arrays previously.
We could put something like,
if you wanted to, grocery item.
Has been modified.
Here I'm using position + 1 when we're
printing it out to the screen because
humans obviously start counting from 1,
but obviously the computer,
as I mentioned in previous videos,
always starts at 0 with its count.
So that's how to modify
an existing item and
the last thing we need to know
how to do is to remove an item.
So to remove an item,
public_void removeGroceryItem.
String the item.
What we're going to do is we're
going to retrieve the item first so
we can actually output it and tell people
what item has actually been modified, and
we do that with
groceryLlists.get position.
At that position,
I'm returning into a string.
Then we just type
groceryList.remove(position).
That removes that item first
automatically at that position so,
essentially if we had five elements and
we have one, milk, cheese, bread.
Those three elements in the array.
If we call this and
we actually called it with position
one which would be the second element.
What happens is automatically
the array list gets changed like this.
So we've now got two items.
And it's effectively moved the bread item
up into the position where previously we
had cheese.
So that's again the good part about
this is the array list is doing this for
us automatically.
It's not code that we need to
create to handle that complexity.
So I'll just remove that.
So what I'm gonna do, this video
is starting to get a bit long so,
I'm just gonna pause the video here.
And we'll come back to the next video and
what I'm going to do is just finish off
this and show this application running,
then I'm gonna issue with a challenge so
that you can actually start checking
out array list for yourself.
So, I'll see you in that next video.